README.md, before:

# Academic-CV Typst Template for Quarto

This is a [Quarto](https://quarto.org/) extension for creating beautiful, modern, and professional academic CVs and cover letters using the [Typst](https://typst.app/) typesetting system.

![Screenshot of the Template showing a simple cover page of the template with a profile picture, name of the author and contact details highlighted in the center of the document. Accent Color is a greyish blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/orehren/acvt/main/screenshot.png#center)

## Features

*   **High-Quality Typesetting:** Built on Typst for clean, professional, and perfectly formatted PDF output.
*   **Data-Driven Content:** Populate your CV directly from a Google Sheet.
*   **Highly Customizable:** Easily change colors, fonts, and more through simple YAML options.
*   **All-in-One:** Generate both your CV and a matching cover letter from a single `.qmd` file.

## Installing

### Recommended Method: R Package & RStudio Template

This is the easiest and most powerful way to use the template. It installs all R package dependencies automatically and makes the project available as a template in the RStudio "New Project" wizard.

1.  **Install the R Package from GitHub:**
    Open your R console (or RStudio) and run the following commands:
    ```r
    # Install devtools if you don't have it already
    if (!requireNamespace("devtools", quietly = TRUE)) {
      install.packages("devtools")
    }
    # Install the package
    devtools::install_github("orehren/academicCVTemplate")
    ```

2.  **Restart RStudio:**
    You must restart your RStudio session for the project template to appear.

3.  **Create a New Project:**
    Go to **File > New Project... > New Directory**. You will now see "Academic CV Project" in the list of project types. Select it to create a new, ready-to-use CV project.

### Alternative Method: Manual Quarto Installation

If you are not using RStudio or prefer a manual setup, you can install the Quarto extension directly.

```bash
# To create a new project with the template
quarto use template orehren/academicCVTemplate

# To add the extension to an existing project
quarto add orehren/academicCVTemplate
```

**Note:** With this method, you must manually install the required R packages. Please see the full documentation for the list of packages

## Documentation

**For complete instructions on how to install, use, and customize this template, please visit the official documentation website: [https://orehren.github.io/acvt](https://orehren.github.io/acvt/)**

The full documentation includes:
*   A step-by-step **Installation Guide**.
*   A hands-on **Tutorial**.
*   A **Complete YAML Reference** for all configuration options.
*   An **Advanced Styling Guide**.

## Acknowledgements

This project was inspired by and builds upon the work of several open-source projects, including Awesome-CV and quarto-awesomecv-typst. For a full list of acknowledgements, please see the [documentation](https://orehren.github.io/acvt/).

Commit message:

cleaned documentation and clutter files

README.md, after:

# Academic-CV Typst Template for Quarto

This is a [Quarto](https://quarto.org/) extension for creating beautiful, modern, and professional academic CVs and cover letters using the [Typst](https://typst.app/) typesetting system.

![Screenshot of the Template showing a simple cover page of the template with a profile picture, name of the author and contact details highlighted in the center of the document. Accent Color is a greyish blue](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/orehren/acvt/main/screenshot.png#center)

## Features

*   **High-Quality Typesetting:** Built on Typst for clean, professional, and perfectly formatted PDF output.
*   **Data-Driven Content:** Populate your CV directly from a Google Sheet.
*   **Highly Customizable:** Easily change colors, fonts, and more through simple YAML options.
*   **All-in-One:** Generate both your CV and a matching cover letter from a single `.qmd` file.

## Installing

### Recommended Method: R Package & RStudio Template

This is the easiest and most powerful way to use the template. It installs all R package dependencies automatically and makes the project available as a template in the RStudio "New Project" wizard.

1.  **Install the R Package from GitHub:**
    Open your R console (or RStudio) and run the following commands:
    ```r
    # Install devtools if you don't have it already
    if (!requireNamespace("devtools", quietly = TRUE)) {
      install.packages("devtools")
    }
    # Install the package
    devtools::install_github("orehren/academicCVTemplate")
    ```

2.  **Restart RStudio:**
    You must restart your RStudio session for the project template to appear.

3.  **Create a New Project:**
    Go to **File > New Project... > New Directory**. You will now see "Academic CV Project" in the list of project types. Select it to create a new, ready-to-use CV project.

### Alternative Method: Manual Quarto Installation

If you are not using RStudio or prefer a manual setup, you can install the Quarto extension directly.

```bash
# To create a new project with the template
quarto use template orehren/academicCVTemplate

# To add the extension to an existing project
quarto add orehren/academicCVTemplate
```

**Note:** With this method, you must manually install the required R packages. This can easily be done with the project setup script included in this extension.

To run the project setup script and easily configure the project (install package dependencies, setup Google authentication, copy files), simply run the following command in your R console:

```r
source(dir(pattern = "setup_acvt.R", recursive = TRUE, full.names = TRUE))
```


## Documentation

**For complete instructions on how to install, use, and customize this template, please visit the official documentation website: [https://orehren.github.io/acvt](https://orehren.github.io/acvt/)**

The full documentation includes:
*   A step-by-step **Installation Guide**.
*   A hands-on **Tutorial**.
*   A **Complete YAML Reference** for all configuration options.
*   An **Advanced Styling Guide**.

## Acknowledgements

This project was inspired by and builds upon the work of several open-source projects, including Awesome-CV and quarto-awesomecv-typst. For a full list of acknowledgements, please see the [documentation](https://orehren.github.io/acvt/).
